In this video we will learn about packages in Java.
Packages in Java is nothing but a group of classes, sub packages and interfaces interfaces WIP packages
are required.
First of all, it avoids naming conflict.
So there can be two different packages having the same class name.
But you can have a class name like all students and two different packages.
Package one and package two can have the class named to and it will not create any kind of conflict
making, searching and locating and usage of classes, interfaces, annotations easier.
So packages create a different true hierarchy.
And that's why it is very convenient to access your code through your classes interfaces and make the
searching also simpler.
It also provides controlled access.
So there are two axis specified that is protected and default which have package label access control.
A protected member is accessible by the class in the same package and its subclasses are default member.
That is, then we don't provide any access specified like public, protected or private.
If we don't provide anything that goes under default category and that is accessible by classes in the
same package only.
So this the packages are also considered as a way of data encapsulation.
So let's learn more about different types of packages.
So in Java there are two types of packages which are building packages and user defined packages.
So if you see your this is a package which I have and I'm sure that is a user defined package.
And whatever is already written in Java, that is Java dot, IO, all these things which we use.
So that is a
built in package.
Okay.
So we can use Java I or Java DOT or AWP.
So I thought I.
This is a moving package.
So if you want to use any building package, we need to add our respective dependencies also in this.
So this is saying the import is done, but it is not used.
We have not used it to say that it is showing like that.
But there are a number of building classes in Java which we can use.
So with this, if we import any particular package in our code, that means whatever those packages
and classes are there in this package we can access and utilize in our code.
Okay.
So similarly, let us try.
So this is my package.
We have added a sample code.
Basic naming convention followed for the package will be something like all dot automated, dot based,
all dot automated dot UI.
This way the package naming convention is followed in this event.
You consider it in the directory level, how it is utilized, how the packages are useful, as like
you will get on different folders.
If you see this project's structure, you will get a sample code folder and inside that folder all your
Java classes will be present.
So then you have or not automated board best gift.
Then you will have a folder with named org.
Then you will have a folder with name to a automated and then you will have a folder with name based.
And inside this folder you will have all your this java classes.
So let us check that.
Let's add a new package.
So the package name I'm going to give you is all the automated dot est.
Okay.
So this is a package.
This is a naming convention for creating a package.
Okay, now let's add a new class inside the package.
We can add a package also and we can add in this class.
So let us add best.
Set.
Okay.
So for this, if I want to use this particular class in any of the Java classes in the other package.
So I can import this particular package and use this.
Okay.
So what I can do here, I can import.
And then I can use the class here.
Is this spelling mistake.
Let us write this.
The leader.
Okay.
So I can access this particular class from another package here.
So I'm importing the specific class here and utilizing the creating object of the class.
This allows me to utilize all the methods already done inside this class.
Okay.
So this gives me that access.
So this is about the packages in Java.
What is a proper nomenclature to follow?
How you can access other classes from the other packages.
And then you have access specifies that is protected only default, which are package level access specifiers.
So this is this is useful when you're creating your test frameworks and stuff, right?
The package of the packages, the grouping of your test cases, grouping of your different classes is
very much important when you're working on the bigger project, which involves a lot of classes, interfaces,
etc..
So that's it about packages.
Let's move on to the next module.